The Impact of AI on Jobs and Sexual Discrimination   ABSTRACT Artificial intelligence has been applied more into occupations by companies and individuals. Automation, big data and the algorithm applied in the job field  would be some of the points to discover. Big data is a collection of data from various sources, it is related to  AI because the more data input into AI the better it becomes. This paper is not totally against the use of AI but  advocates that artificial intelligence should be used in a more careful, gender responsible way to reduce sexual  discrimination in the job field. The definition of sexual discrimination could be a form of discrimination that a person is treated differently or  unequally because of their sex/gender.
The concern is if AI and automation are not used in a gender responsible  method, and it might reinforce pre-existing gender bias. Companies and governments  would need to take action to face changes caused by AI to ensure social orders, justice and equality. It is 7 to 24 percent of women that are currently  employed compared to the range of 8 to 28 percent for men. If women take advantage of transition  opportunities, they could maintain their current share of employment. Not to mention, with 78% of AI professionals being men, algorithms are created with male dominated  experiences.
Women over-represented in certain high-risk automation sectors could The lack of mobility and flexibility could also be reasons for companies to unemploy women or  reduce bargaining positions[5]. The US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission is investigating at least  two cases involving algorithms that could be discriminated toward certain groups of job applicants[6]. All information online could be used  to identify individuals however the privacy law was not designed to consider what personal information should it  protect and how to protect[7]. This would not be an exception, other companies while using AI automation would face the same problem. Despite those concerns, more companies are still pushing hard to automate more parts of recruitment and hiring.
Although they are potentially designed to reduce bias, most hiring algorithms still drift toward bias by default. To ensure diversity in input data,  collecting more training data specifically with sensitive groups would help with unfairness. AdFisher can run  browser-based experiments and analyze data using machine learning and significance tests. The Ad Settings was  opaque about some features of a user's profile including providing some choice on ads. A research uses data from a field test of an ad that was intended to promote job opportunities and training in  STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math).
Many reasons contributed to this result algorithm trying to maximize the clicks thus showing ads more to men  than women, or women are less likely to visit websites with ads on them. SUGGESTION   Companies should invest in training and reskilling, provide possible training and apprenticeship programs for  women. Companies should subsidize transition costs, government or corporate  reskilling subsidies for targeted occupations and sectors. Community and governments could provide childcare  subsidies for parents undergoing reskilling or pursuing higher education. Governments could invest in digital  platforms, industry partnerships with massive open online courses.
Output testing: Establish testing  requirements and controls around the outputs produced or decisions made by the AI. Development teams: Make sure AI design and development teams are diverse and include female data  scientists, programmers, designers, and other key team members who influence how an AI application is  developed. CONCLUSION   Since automation is the major trend in the future, companies and the government should be double careful with  the use of it. It is important to note that, even  though the focus of this essay is gender bias, AI applications can and often do suffer from different types of  societal biases, for example, around race, ethnicity, and religion. The effect of AI would create  multiple concerns but does not mean that society would stop exploring this field.
